So first up, we have the module pattern,
which is a very useful pattern to split
your code up into multiple,
smaller and reusable pieces.
Now, if you've only been using JavaScript
pretty recently, or at least after ES15,
this may seem very obvious to you, but
it didn't really used to
be that way in JavaScript.
It was pretty normal to just create one
big file that contained all the methods
and all the values that we needed to use,
and then execute that.
But with the module pattern, we can
actually split this up into modules, and
only export the values, so
making them accessible to other files
when we explicitly export these
values with the export keyword.
And we can then import them in other
modules with the import keyword.
So it's nice that when values
aren't explicitly exported,
they're actually private to that module.
For example,
here if we have the secret variable,
since we didn't export it,
it's only available within that module.
We cannot import it in other modules,
it will just stay in there, so
it's encapsulated.
We kind of have an idea of having
private variables within that module.
Now, normally when we used
to work with JavaScripts,
maybe we would import a script like this.
So we have a math.js scripts or a file
that contains some mathematical methods.
And then we also have the index.js file,
which then uses these.
And this is totally fine,
this is how JavaScript works.
And we can first import this math.js file
and then the index.js file, and index
automatically has access to everything
that was written in a math.js file.
That happened because JavaScript uses
something called an implied global.
So anything that we defined in this file,
for example, divide,
is actually also accessible on the window.
We can just do divide 1 and 2.
Now, if we had any secret values, it was
just hard to do that without modules.
Now, ES15 or after ES15 we can
actually use built-in modules, and
we can use this in two ways.
So if we're just using the HTML tag,
we can add the type module to this,
which then turns it into a module,
meaning it encapsulates everything.
So you can see here that when we
tried to use sum in the index here,
it says sum is not defined.
Because it's a module and
it hasn't been exported from the module,
it is private to just that file.
Whereas if we didn't use the type module,
you can see that it works just fine, but
this is not always the expected behavior.
Besides HTML we can also
use modules in node, and
there are actually two
ways that we can use this.
Either we can use the mjs extension
to a file that should be module or
we can just use the type
module in our package json.
So for example here, you can see that
we've added the type module to our package
json, which allows us to use all this
module specific syntax like import and
then export from math.
So here if we now run index, you can
see that we were able to use the sum,
subtract, divide and multiply.
It also shows that if we had a private
variable here like com secret and
we imported that in our index file,
secret.
And we again, run this node index, you
will see that it throws an error because
the requested module doesn't
provide an export named secret.
So only within the module
can we actually use that,
we cannot use it in any other
part of our application.
Yeah, so the tradeoffs to the module
pattern is that it's super easy to
encapsulate all these values within just
that module because we have those private
values by not explicitly exporting them.
And then we also have these publicly
available values by exporting them.
It's also easier to reuse certain modules.
If we want to reuse certain parts of the
code, we don't have to repeat ourselves
every time, we could just create
a module and then import that.
All right, so the first challenge is,
we see this large index.js file that
uses all these mathematical methods,
and in here we're using it.
So the challenge is to split
this up into two modules.
So we have the math.js module and
then the index.js module,
which imports all these math methods
in order to log them like this.